8 Day Highlights of Uganda - Budget Tour

Day 1 Arrival in Entebbe
On your grand arrival at the Entebbe International Airport you will be met by your
guide. Having passed immigration and luggage collection please exit the arrival hall and
look out for your guide who will be holding up a signboard with your name and featuring our
logo. You will then be transferred to your Sunflower guesthouse in Kampala [BB]

Day 2 Fort Portal, Kibale National park.
This morning after breakfast we will depart to Fort Portal. At arrival we will discover the
area around the Rwenzori Mountains including the Ruwenzori Mountain Sculpture
Foundation before we head to Kibale National park the next morning. This incredibly diverse
forest in Western Uganda is home to over 13 species of primates including chimpanzee,
red colobus monkey, the rare L’Hoest, blue monkey, grey mangabey, pottos, black faced
vervet monkeys, baboons and also bushbabies. A network of shady forest trails provides
much to delight botanists and butterfly lovers, while birders are in for a treat with 335
species recorded including the endemic Prirogrine’s ground thrush. The elusive forest
elephant, smaller and hairier that its savannah counterpart, moves seasonally into the
developed part of the park, while other terrestrial mammals include buffalo, giant forest hog
and a half dozen antelope Species. Overnight at Kibale Forest Camp (HB)

Day 3
After your breakfast, prepare to report to the ranger station in Kibale National Park at
8.00am to track habituated Chimps – these delightful apes, more closely related
tohumans than to any other living creature, are tremendous fun to watch as they squabble
and play in fruiting trees. A network of shady forest paths in light terrain provides much joy
to nature lovers and especially botanists and birders are in for a special treat. Overnight at
Kibale Forest Camp (HB)

Day 4 Queen Elizabeth National park
Drive through Fort portal- Kasese road towards Queen Elizabeth National Park. Set against
the backdrop of the jagged Rwenzori Mountains, the park’s magnificent vistas include
dozens of enormous craters carved dramatically into rolling green hills, panoramic views of
the Kazinga Channel with its banks lined with hippos, buffalo and elephants, and the endless Ishasha plains, whose fig trees hide lions ready to pounce on herds of unsuspecting
Uganda Kobs. We will overnight at the beautiful Queen Bush Lodge. The lodge consists of
12 self contained units, spaciously placed between the indigenous bush. The rooms are build
on a raised wooden platform and made from a fine combination of canvas and local
materials. (HB)

Day 5
A wake up call at 6 .00 am take some coffee and go for an early morning game drive is
usually most rewarding. The Kasenyi sector on the east side of the Kasese road is best
known for the lions which prey on large population of Uganda kob that live in this area.
Another common-but unexpected-sighting with in Queen Elizabeth is the giant forest hog,
Africa’s largest pig, which is usually associated with dense forests rather than semi-open
thickets. Head back to the lodge for lunch and later in the afternoon embark one of the
boats for a water safari on Kazinga Channel. The 36km Channel connects two Rift
Valley lakes: Edward and George. These are named after Queen Victoria’s son and
heir, Edward VII and his own successor, George V.Early explorers in Africa often had
to cope with inhospitable terrain and travel by boat was especially difficult. Now you can
experience the sights and sounds that greeted these early pioneers in comfort. Cruise the
Kazinga Channel and view the immense concentration of hippos at close range, spot over
100 species of water birds, marvel at the majestic elephants in their natural habitat and the
notorious Nile crocodiles sunbathing on the channel bank.This will allow you to experience
wildlife up close where hippos huff and spray mere feet away, buffalo linger in the shallows
and a tremendous variety of birds grace the grasses on the river’s edge. Amongst those you
will see are the malachite and pied Kingfishers, great white and pink-backed pelicans and
the open-billed stork. With some luck you will even spot elephants on the river banks
coming for a drink and a bath. We return to the lodge for dinner. Overnight at Queen
Bush Lodge(HB)

Day 6
Today we will depart for Bwindi passing through the southern sector of the park, known as
Ishasha. This remote and beautiful extension of Queen Elizabeth National Park is famed
for its tree-climbing lions. It is a fabulous sight to see the lions draped from the trees and
nowhere in Africa do you stand a better chance of seeing this than in the large low limbed
fig trees of Ishasha. We continue to our accommodation, game-viewing en route. Bwindi
Impenetrable NP is regarded as a UNESCO-Natural-World-Heritage and is one of the
richest biological and botanical regions in the world. With its south-west position at the edge
of the western Rift-Valley, this forest covers 331 km².The treasures of Bwindi are the
approx. 350 wild Mountain Gorillas. They contribute to about half of the world population of
these gentle human apes. Arrival in Buhoma is in the afternoon, the destination of our
journey today. Basing on desire and mood, a walk around the area is always worth it.
Certainly you will also find something nice in one of the art and handicraft shops.
Overnight at Buhoma Community Rest camp (HB)

8 Day Highlights of Uganda - Budget Tour
Up relatively early for a hearty breakfast to give you the energy needed for your Gorilla
Trek. Before 8 am report to the ranger station for registration and a talk by one of the
rangers; the guides will then take you through the bush pushing your way through the
undergrowth, parting thick creepers, to track the g
gorillas. The trek can take from half an hour to 7 hours – a reasonable degree of fitness is
required as well as a sturdy pair of walking shoes. Once you are close to the group the
guides will ask you to leave behind your bags as no food items should be carried close to
the gorillas. Just take your cameras with you as you are about to meet the gentle giants! Sit
in the forest amongst the gorillas, listening to them grumble to each other and marvel at
the sheer size of the dominant male; the Silverback. It is an extraordinary feeling sitting in
the dense rainforest knowing you are with a few of the last remaining Mountain Gorillas –
sadly enough there are only about 650 of these beautiful creatures left. You are allowed
exactly one hour with the gorillas before returning to the base station. Overnight at
Buhoma Community Rest camp (FB)

Day 8
After breakfast at the Camp, we start our journey back to Kampala. A stop at the Equator
with a picnic lunch. You will enjoy a farewell dinner with your guide. You will spend a last
night in Kampala and you will be transferred next day in time to the Entebbe
InternationalAirport for your outbound flight. Please note that check-in for international
flights should be done 2 hours prior to departure of the flight. In the departure hall (after
check-in) you will find a small restaurant, a sitting area and several duty-free shops for your
convenience. Overnight at Sunflower guesthouse (HB)


Included
- All accommodation on Half Board (HB) or Full Board (FB) Basis as quoted in the text
- Safari vehicle Minibus (Jeep plus $160 on group price)
- English speaking tourist guide 
- 1 Gorilla permit per person, 1 chimp permit per person
- Game Drives and walks
- Entrance fees in the national parks
- All boat tours
- Taxes, Fuel, etc.
- Free mineral water during the tour
Excluded
- Visa fees
- Drinks / alcoholic drinks
- Additional meals
- Tips
- Activities not part of the described program.
- International Travel insurance